Our application at the moment has one problem, when I open that modal sheet and I try to enter something
here,
you'll see that this gets cleared, the title gets cleared as soon as I click into the amount and
if I click into the title now, the amount gets cleared, so something's wrong here.
By the way of course our amount is also a bit overlapped by the keyboard if we enter something into
the title and that's something we'll fix later. Also if you would rotate the device into landscape,
you wouldn't really be able to work with that but let's take care about this later
once you learned how to build more responsive user interfaces. For the moment, let's fix that issue of our
data getting lost
when we click into the other fields. The fix is simple,
you need to change new transaction, so this widget which renders these inputs, from a stateless into
a stateful widget. Even though we're not calling set state in here, that internally changes something
for Flutter because the state object in the end is treated differently than a widget object,
it's basically maintained and not rebuilt as often easily and therefore you should convert new transaction
here to a stateful widget and thanks to this refactoring syntax, that all is done automatically and
now if you reload your application with that saved, if you now open that again,
now here we can enter something and now the data is kept and we can add this and see our new transaction
here which is of course pretty convenient.
Now internally here in new transaction, there is now also one important change,
we still get add transaction as an argument here and that's inside of our widget, right?
Add transaction is a property in our widget, not in the state object but in the widget and it needs to
be there because we need to define it or we need to accept it on the constructor of the widget, not
on the constructor of the state because the state is constructed here with the help of create state
and that's inside of the widget. So to receive something, some data in the widget from outside which
is the case here, we receive a pointer at the add new transaction function,
we need to accept it on the constructor of the widget. The problem is that I want to use this function
from inside the state object thereafter and not inside my widget
and these are two different classes technically. Thankfully, Flutter establishes a connection and gives
us a special property inside of our state class,
it gives us this widget property and this refactoring step automatically added it. With widget., you
can access the properties and methods of your widget class inside of your state class.
So with widget.addTx, I can access the addTx property, which is this function reference I get even
though I'm technically in a different class. That's important, widget, that is a special property we haven't
seen before,
it has to be named widget and it's only available in your state classes and gives you access to the
connected widget
and with that, we now also fixed that issue of the bottom sheet
clearing our inputs when we type in there.
Now one other thing we can do is that when we enter a new transaction here, that we actually also close
the bottom sheet as soon as we confirm it and that we don't have to close it manually and doing that
is pretty straightforward.
Here in submit data after calling addTx, you can call navigator of context pop.
Now that's something we haven't seen before,
the navigator is always something I'll have a way closer look at in the navigation section of this
course,
it's built into Flutter and you can do a lot of awesome stuff. Here,
we simply use its pop method to basically close the topmost screen that is displayed and that is that
modal sheet
if it's opened. So that closes that modal sheet by popping it off and more on that and what it does in
detail in a later section. Of context here is required to get access to the right navigator or to give
the navigator some metadata and context here, just like widget, is a special property which is available
class wide in your state class here. Even though you never defined a property named context, it's made
available because we extend state.
So it's basically like widget,
it's a special property that is available and that in this case gives you access to the context of your
widget. Widget gives you access to the class itself, to its properties and so on,
context gives you access to the context related to your widget. More on all of that later,
with that however, we now added the functionality that we can automatically
close our bottom modal sheet
once we're done.
So if I now add my new shoes here, which let's say costs 99.99, now you'll see that also closes
the modal sheet.
With that, let's continue with our app and let's again turn our heads towards styling.